README.md, before:

# grunt-start-kit
### A Grunt Scaffold to get you started with a proper Grunt setup.

- This is a start kit (a scaffold) for using Grunt with your project. It provides you with a directory structure with plenty of useful Grunt plugins ready to be installed (npm install) and structured in a way that makes it easy to scale your project. The structure is built in a way that separates each indiviual Grunt plugin into it's own file. (inside the folder: /grunt/). So you have a clear separation of Grunt plugin setup and content from the master Grunt config file allowing for a more modular setup.

The Grunt plugins that are installed so far are:
- assemble : Allows for easy compiling of handlebar files into corresponding html elements. Templating for the win.
- browserify : To use modules in your JS. It also uses 'babelify' to make use of this transpiler (allows you to use ES6 features in JS)
- connect-livereload : livereload functionality (TODO - needs to be more descriptive)
- contrib-connect: Launches a static web server on the port designated by the corresponding variable.
- contrib-copy: To copy the contents of a dir from one location to next. To be able to create a separation in between your source and distribution directory (which would include code in a different state like uglified, etc...).
- contrib-sass: Convert your sass into scss
- clean: deletes the 'dist' folder. Has a separate task to call with. 
- text-replace: Replace target string(s) in src files with target values.
- watch: Watch for changes in a specific dir and launch a task if change happens.

### Getting Started
- after cloning from project from the repo, do a npm install.
- (optional) adjust your package.json (change the 'CHANGE-ME' sections according to your needs)
- install and configure more plugins as necessary. You can use the already existing plugin js files under the 'grunt' folder to see how they need to be structured.
	- One thing you need to be careful is, whereas the first input to the grunt.config method refers to the name that this plugin will be called with inside Grunt.js task, the grunt.loadNpmTasks in the same file need to use the full plugin name to work. (find it in your package.json file)
- After doing just add the name of task in your Gruntfile.js.
- You should be done! Just run the grunt <taskname> on command like. Like `grunt build`

### Details

#### Assemble

Assemble works with the files under the template folder and creates static html files from the handlebar layout, page and partials that are found under that folder. Just place your files under there, subfolders are allowed.

### Observations about Grunt or the Workflow

#### Doing one thing vs many things

- One thing that stood out when learning more about Grunt was that it's competitor Gulp apperantly is better at creating more atomic scripts that excel at doing one thing and one thing only. This starts to make more sense as I get familiar with more Grunt Plugins. For example looking at 'grunt-text-replace' it not only replaces text but also offers to copy the files to a dir which can already be handled by a Grunt copy plugin instead.

#### Code vs Config

- I think this is due to configuration based nature of Grunt but also probably due to indivual plugins; things don't always throw an error when there is a problem which makes debugging hard when there is a problem. Entering the wrong key name, like 'scr' instead of 'scr' will make your build not do anything with you scratching your head to figure it all out.

### Credit

inspired by:
https://github.com/cowboy/wesbos/commit/5a2980a7818957cbaeedcd7552af9ce54e05e3fb

### Useful Links

- instrumental in getting babel / browserify to work

https://github.com/babel/babelify
https://www.npmjs.com/package/grunt-browserify

Commit message:

add the grunt-open task

README.md, after:

# grunt-start-kit
### A Grunt Scaffold to get you started with a proper Grunt setup.

- This is a start kit (a scaffold) for using Grunt with your project. It provides you with a directory structure with plenty of useful Grunt plugins ready to be installed (npm install) and structured in a way that makes it easy to scale your project. The structure is built in a way that separates each indiviual Grunt plugin into it's own file. (inside the folder: /grunt/). So you have a clear separation of Grunt plugin setup and content from the master Grunt config file allowing for a more modular setup.

The Grunt plugins that are installed so far are: (TODO: sort this list alphabetically)
- assemble : Allows for easy compiling of handlebar files into corresponding html elements. Templating for the win.
- browserify : To use modules in your JS. It also uses 'babelify' to make use of this transpiler (allows you to use ES6 features in JS)
- connect-livereload : livereload functionality (TODO - needs to be more descriptive)
- contrib-connect: Launches a static web server on the port designated by the corresponding variable.
- contrib-copy: To copy the contents of a dir from one location to next. To be able to create a separation in between your source and distribution directory (which would include code in a different state like uglified, etc...).
- contrib-sass: Convert your sass into scss
- clean: deletes the 'dist' folder. Has a separate task to call with. 
- text-replace: Replace target string(s) in src files with target values.
- watch: Watch for changes in a specific dir and launch a task if change happens.
- grunt-open: Launches the desired browser and the specified url.

### Getting Started
- after cloning from project from the repo, do a npm install.
- (optional) adjust your package.json (change the 'CHANGE-ME' sections according to your needs)
- install and configure more plugins as necessary. You can use the already existing plugin js files under the 'grunt' folder to see how they need to be structured.
	- One thing you need to be careful is, whereas the first input to the grunt.config method refers to the name that this plugin will be called with inside Grunt.js task, the grunt.loadNpmTasks in the same file need to use the full plugin name to work. (find it in your package.json file)
- After doing just add the name of task in your Gruntfile.js.
- You should be done! Just run the grunt <taskname> on command like. Like `grunt build`

### Details

#### Assemble

Assemble works with the files under the template folder and creates static html files from the handlebar layout, page and partials that are found under that folder. Just place your files under there, subfolders are allowed.

### Observations about Grunt or the Workflow

#### Doing one thing vs many things

- One thing that stood out when learning more about Grunt was that it's competitor Gulp apperantly is better at creating more atomic scripts that excel at doing one thing and one thing only. This starts to make more sense as I get familiar with more Grunt Plugins. For example looking at 'grunt-text-replace' it not only replaces text but also offers to copy the files to a dir which can already be handled by a Grunt copy plugin instead.

#### Code vs Config

- I think this is due to configuration based nature of Grunt but also probably due to indivual plugins; things don't always throw an error when there is a problem which makes debugging hard when there is a problem. Entering the wrong key name, like 'scr' instead of 'scr' will make your build not do anything with you scratching your head to figure it all out.

### Credit

inspired by:
https://github.com/cowboy/wesbos/commit/5a2980a7818957cbaeedcd7552af9ce54e05e3fb

### Useful Links

- instrumental in getting babel / browserify to work

https://github.com/babel/babelify
https://www.npmjs.com/package/grunt-browserify
